good afternoon and welcome to today's
Downing Street press conference now let
me start with the daily update on the
latest data on coronavirus today we had
a thousand and fifty six new cases there
are 395 people in critical care and 38
people have very sadly died I think it's
also worth noting the week on weak data
which compares Friday the fifth of June
with Friday the 12th of June just to
give you a sense of the trend and the
progress that we're making they were
against the fifth of June versus the
12th of June 109 fewer daily cases there
161 fewer patients in critical care in
our hospitals and 155 fewer deaths
that's important progress on the week
before as we continued step by step and
week by week to bring the instance of
coronavirus down in addition as of today
there have been six million eight
hundred and sixty-six thousand four
hundred and eighty-one tests but
coronavirus carried out or posted out in
the United Kingdom and that includes 93
thousand one hundred and sixty three
tests carried out or posted out
yesterday this is the progress the
evidence the basis on which were able to
progress along the roadmap which the
Prime Minister set out on the 11th of
May we're taking steady steps at each
stage and our progress is based on
strict conditions and we're very
carefully monitoring the impact they
have on the virus and it's thanks to the
hard work of the British people that
we've seen the level of the virus
brought down substantially at the same
time we are watching the impact of every
change that we make very closely so that
we can monitor the trends and make sure
that every step we take is as safe as
possible in terms of those steps that
the most recent steps that we've taken
on Saturday we took measures to allow
individual prayer at places of worship
an order to support the loneliest and
some of the most vulnerable in our
society we've also allowed single adult
households to form support bubbles
without with one other household
and all of those in any support bubble
are able to act as if they're living in
the same household including spending
time each other's homes without the
requisite social distancing measures
apply and I know that these modest steps
will provide enormous relief to many
people who have been isolated from their
loved ones for weeks on end now today
we're taking further steps to reopen
British high streets to get our economy
motoring again to protect jobs and
livelihoods and will also allow outdoor
attractions to open where people can
stay in their cars like Safari parks and
drive-in cinemas as we explained back on
the 11th of May these are modest and
careful steps but with each step we take
we can monitor their effect on the
transmission of Kovach 19 in the country
keep the virus under control as we open
up step by step and build public
confidence in the transition that we're
making and I say that because we can't
just pretend that coronavirus has gone
away or we've eliminated the virus and
we know from the science and also from
what we're seeing from international
experience that there is a risk of a
second spike if we're not very careful
at this moment in time so we need to
keep up the social distancing we need to
keep building up and reinforcing the
tests and tracing regime and we need to
continue our steady progress in
repressing the virus as we try to get
life back to something like normal Bayes
and the Treasury are working very
closely with businesses large and small
right across the country so that they're
able to meet the covert secure
guidelines before they reopen and just
to give you a sense of what that will
look like in practice in local shops as
we've already seen with essential retail
you'll see one way floor markings and
signs you'll see hand sanitizing
stations and there will be limits on the
number of people in any one shop at any
one time so it's very much a managed
process starting today we've also made
it mandatory to wear a face covering
when using public transport and we also
advise people to use a face covering in
any place where they can't be sure that
the they'll be able to adhere to the
social distancing guidelines
at the same time today we continue to
incrementally bring more of our children
back to school we started with primary
schools welcoming more children back on
the 1st of June and today's secondary
schools will start to provide some
face-to-face time between teachers and
students in years 10 and 12 so that's
where we are as of today and as I said
we'll monitor the effect of these
changes very carefully that's the way we
can keep the downward pressure on
coronavirus and build up public
confidence so we're in the best position
that we possibly can be to take the
third step along our roadmap which will
happen no earlier than the fourth of
July we're sticking to our plan we're
making good progress every week and
we'll only take the necessary next steps
when we can be confident that it's safe
to do so
now I'll talk through the data slides
that we have up on the screen if I could
have the first slide please so you can
see from the first slide and one of the
reasons I want to talk through these
this data today's it can show the trend
that I was talking about in my opening
remarks and the first slide shows cases
confirm with a test so in total we've
got coming close to 7 million tests for
coronavirus that have now been carried
out or post out in the UK and that
includes the 93,000 163 tests carried
out or posted out yesterday we can see
also that nearly 300,000 people have
tested positive and that's just over a
thousand cases since yesterday if I
could have the second slide please this
shows the latest data from our hospitals
where you can see that four hundred and
three four hundred and thirty people
were admitted to hospital with
coronavirus in England Wales and
Northern Ireland on the 12th of June and
that's down from 515 a week earlier and
down from a peak of 3432 back on the 1st
of April so you get a sense of the trend
and the progress we're making 395 Kovach
19 patients were in mechanical
ventilation beds in the UK on the 12th
of June and that's down from 556 a week
earlier and down from a peak of over
3000 on the 12th of April
if I could have the third slide please
this shows the regional breakdown for
what's happening in our hospitals across
the country there are now five thousand
five hundred and seven people in
hospitals with coronavirus in the UK as
down 19% from six thousand eight hundred
and twenty-six a week ago and down from
a peak of over twenty thousand on the
12th of April and as the graph shows
there's some regional variation but most
nations and most regions of the UK are
broadly broadly following a pretty
similar pattern if I could have the
final slide please now this shows the
daily figures for those who have very
sadly lost their lives after testing
positive for coronavirus and I think the
most interesting feature is the yellow
line the seven day rolling average which
shows that the daily number of deaths
currently stands at 163 that's down from
a peak of 943 on the 14th of April so
we're not there yet we're not out of the
woods entirely but we've made steady
progress and that's the basis that's the
evidence on which we could take the
further steps that we took today as we
come through this transition along the
roadmap that the Prime Minister has set
out that's it from the slides I think
we'll now go to some questions please I
think we've got first up oli from
Newcastle underlined holy
can we have that question again it was
on mute please all he's asking when the
UK's alert that'll will be at one or
near to one only it's difficult to say
for sure we know it's down below one and
the critical thing at this stage is as
we open up schools we oh can open up
businesses is that with our tests and
trace mechanism we keep a very close eye
to make sure that we're controlling the
virus in getting it out we need to make
sure we keep suppressing not just the
incidence but the transmission rate so
that sometimes the are level and of
course the alert level will follow that
that's decided independently by the
biosecurity Center and we'll take their
advice on the alert level but that's not
decided by the politicians next up we've
got dude from east born and dude asks
what provision will be put in place for
the children of key workers over the
summer holidays if the schools won't be
open on normal plans would be school
holiday clubs grandparents who live out
of town as well as holidays abroad to
break up the 7 week summer holiday and
none of those options are currently
available well look I'm sure dude you
speak to for a lot of people we're
working with schools we've provided
extra money for some of the programs
that can be provided over the recess
period thousands of children will also
receive extra support through our
holiday activities and food program but
it will be difficult and we appreciate
that there will be more challenges than
we would normally have but as I said
before as we open up schools and as we
children come back into using the
facilities and as we look at some of
those wider offers that schools can make
we've just got to be really careful that
we give schools the lead time to prepare
adequately and also that we take these
steps steadily and in a short foot away
so we don't see the the virus get back
take back hold over the country Jude
thank you for that and now I'll go to
the media mark Easton from the BBC
evening mr. Rob the prime minister's
response to the egg
of the black lives matter protests is an
inquiry in the same unit the previous PM
set up to answer the same question
rather than yet another Whitehall
committee wouldn't it be more helpful to
allow us to see immediately the official
findings on why people from black and
other ethnic minorities are more likely
to die from Kovach 19 well we do want to
get to the bottom of that we've
commissioned more research on it I think
you'd agree that that needs to be
handled very sensitively and that we are
making sure we get to the bottom it I've
got a a clear view before we advise the
public we do also think and the Prime
Minister said that it's important to set
up the new commission on race race and
ethnic disparities we want to effect
positive change and I don't accept that
this is yet another review or on top of
the ones that gone before we have made
progress it's not enough we still
Restless to bring further change but the
Prime Minister ran his election campaign
on a leveling up agenda he's been
talking about this issue making sure
we've got more equal opportunity right
across the country right across all of
our communities since he's been Prime
Minister and indeed since the election
campaign and we have also made progress
over the last 10 years we've got a
significant increase in than the rates
of Dame eighteen-year-olds going to
university since 2011 we've seen black
pupils now two and a half times more
likely to win two core subjects at GCSE
and we're also acting on the Lambie
review into the criminal justice system
so we've made progress but it is
important that we make further progress
and that's why the Prime Minister has
set up that new Commission do you want
to come back marking that well I just
wanted to ask you about specifically
about the that the details on on why it
is that black and minority ethnic people
are dying in far greater numbers
proportionately than and white people I
know it's something that that worries an
enormous number of people from those
communities there are leaked reports
going around why are some people allowed
to see this stuff and we and indeed
ethnic minorities are not well mark
you've answered the question yourself
it's it's not right in on the subject is
sensitive where we
not got the bottom of all the evidence
to start leaking bit snippets of it out
we want to make sure we've got a clearer
understanding so that we can communicate
it with practical advice for those
involved precisely because it's a very
sensitive issue and we want to give
clear and reassuring guidance and not to
have different people saying different
things so we will release the as much
information as we can as soon as we
practically can but I think it's also
important people will expect that to
come with practical advice so we'll look
at this very sensitively and make sure
that once the further detail has been
disclosed we can do so with practical
guidance and practical advice which can
give that reassurance mark thanks very
much i go to joel hills at ITN hello
there mr. ARP do you agree that the way
British Airways is treating its
workforce is a national disgrace we're
going through a really challenging time
the government's provided huge amount of
support for businesses large and small
and I think it's really important that
we pull together and have a United team
effort we've seen that with the way the
country feels about key workers and HS
staff and care workers and I think all
it's incumbent on all businesses and all
employers to try and do the very best
they can to see to maintain jobs and see
employee employees through of course
it's in the last analysis but your
friend of individual employers and
businesses to take those judgment calls
but we're certainly urging to keep as
many of those jobs in place as possible
do you want to come back and if I could
I mean it doesn't sound as if you have a
view one way or another but I ask
because just over two weeks ago the
prime minister told mps on the liaison
committee that he is aware of the
situation of British Airways and he said
we are actively looking at what we can
do what is the government going to do
well we've done a huge amount already
there's been billions of pounds put into
the job retention scheme we've provide
direct support for businesses both large
and small
there are loan facilities there other
the furlough scheme of course as well
and so I mean we've taken a huge range
of steps in terms of the in terms of the
Airlines specifically the Chancellor as
of course is looking very carefully at
that and I can tell you that from the
phone of this point of you
we put in 75 million pounds into our
charter flight scheme which is primarily
aimed at getting British nationals back
from being stranded abroad and that's
something that the airlines 14 Airlines
benefited from as well it's a clear
question if you could just answer it
please what does the government plan to
do if anything about the situation
everybody she Airways which I explain to
you very clearly step-by-step ultimately
it will be for businesses to decide how
they navigate through this challenge but
as I've set out we've provided a huge
amount of support and I know that the
Chancellor and the treasurer looking
very carefully at all of the vulnerable
sectors as we come through what is
undoubtedly a very difficult time Joe
thank you very much Beth Rigby from Sky
Thank You Secretary of State on the
matter of this new equality commission
your colleague nos McDonough said today
we have the data on obstacles prejudiced
and inequalities we just need to crack
on with real practical solutions which
will have a positive impact instead of
getting all with it and implementing the
250 recommendations you already have
from a clutch of reviews the PM setting
up another commission to report in six
months time can you understand why that
might actually anger black lives matter
activists rather than reassure them and
on the issue of the 12 meter rule Health
Minister EDR said in the comments today
the review into that rule will strike
the right balance between public health
and business is that how the government
is now approaching things as a trade-off
between public health and the economy
you know first of all on the Commission
I think is about setting a new positive
agenda for change of course we look at
the work that was done by previous
governments but the Prime Minister's
very clear on the direction of travel
and we want to make sure we can
translate some of the diagnosis of the
challenges that we've got with
actionable policies and but again Beth I
just bring you back to that as I
mentioned earlier in response to the
first question that I took we've seen a
significant increase in rates of Bame 18
year-olds going to university since 2011
actually if you look at
children from all ethnic minority
backgrounds they're more likely to take
most academic subjects at GCSE than they
were before we've got a big improvement
in black pupils entering course subjects
at GCSE even more so in relation to
Asian pupils we are making progress so I
do understand the restlessness for
change I think what the Prime Minister
wants to make sure with this commission
is that we can come up with actionable
policies not just a diagnosis of the
challenges we face in relation to that I
think you met the 2 meter rule not the
12 meter rule and the the fact isn't and
I've heard Chris William Patrick valence
explained it previously indeed at this
these podiums is there's no magic to one
or other particular measure there will
be different levels of risk whether it's
at 2 meters 1/2 meters or 1 meter but as
we bring the incidence and the
transmission rate down and depending on
the setting it's something that can be
looked at so we're still going to make
sure all of the policy judgments that we
rightly as politicians take and are
accountable for underpinned by the
science that's why we've tasked this
review to look at it very carefully and
to give us some up-to-date practical
advice and it's I think it's fair to say
that based on the steps that we're
taking we've obviously had essential
retail open for a while with the new
measures we're taking what we're
learning from international experience
abroad we're finding that the scientific
basis is constantly evolving so what we
will do is make sure that we come up
with that the the most up-to-date and
the most comprehensive advice we can
before we as policymakers take those
judgment calls if you want to come back
on into that Beth well just the only
thing is just in terms of the review the
Commission lots of people have said
today actually it's kicking the can down
the road you've had dozens of
recommendations and actually there are
things that need immediate action is
everything just under review for another
six months and do you think that that's
enough to persuade people to stop
protesting well I think we understand
why people are protesting and let's
remember that people are protesting
because of the appalling case of George
Floyd and the resonance that they feel
that that struck with them we understand
that I thought it was a horrific case
where
we welcome the fact that prosecutions
are being brought that there's a federal
review and of course UK is not the same
as the United States and we've made
progress in lots of ways we don't have a
similar number or volume of pain people
who find themselves either being
mistreated in custody or in detention
but we know that there are also concerns
about the criminal justice system which
is why as I mentioned we're already
following up on the Lambie review we're
acting on it already collecting and
publishing more data better data
improving diversity and the prison
workforce working towards incorporating
ethnicity when gauging performance of
all of those key actors in the criminal
justice system so that work is already
underway and there isn't a silver bullet
to this and you say that why aren't we
taking X or Y measures that you didn't
mention one in particular and that's
because this is difficult terrain but
but but I do think we should take stock
of the progress that we've made over
time there was nipped sauce marie-paule
out today which said that 66 percent of
people say that the UK will be more
tolerant more diverse in 10 years time
that's up from 50% in 2009 I think that
tells something of the story we are
making progress we've got every reason
to be optimistic that this country will
be open to everyone and people can make
the very best of their talents based on
their potential not their color their
skin their ethnicity their faith and but
clearly we've still got work to do
so we'll do that painstaking work even
if it takes an extra six months as you
described to make sure that we can
really target policy measures where they
can make the most difference thanks Beth
and I think next is Jane Merrick from
the eye hi Jane thank you the public
Halle earlier asked a very good question
about the alert level and you said
ultimately this was not something that
was decided by politicians it is true
isn't it that there are any questions
the only scientist cancer and I'm just
wondering why you don't have any
scientists or medics next to you today
the weekly appearances by scientists of
the medics at these briefings has hard
since the start of June why why the
appearances by scientists diminishing so
I think you're right Jane to say that
their judgment calls we mate will
inevitably be informed by the science
we're taking a lot of time and effort
to get that right and to get the very
best scientific information we can as
you'll know you'll have heard Sir
Patrick say you'll have a professor
Chris witty set the the science isn't
set in stone it's constantly evolving so
it is fluid and that's why we need to
constantly monitor it in terms of
presence at these press conferences I
mean they will scientists and the chief
and deputy medical officers will
continue to come and attend these these
press conferences I think it is also
true to say that as we go down the road
map when we start to talk about the
changes we're making whether it's two
businesses or two schools or in other
areas will also bring other independent
experts along and and make sure that we
can answer the full range of questions
that people have Jane do you want to
follow up with any of that well yes I
mean it is quite a sort of a key a
crossroads moment this week and when we
have sort of that shops opening up today
questions about the our value and so on
and do you not think it would be more
reassuring to have a medic and a science
at these daily briefings which are still
watched by millions of people and there
are some questions that you can't answer
because you have to you have to refer to
the medics we haven't tried me on the
question that I can't answer yet but I'm
happy to be proved wrong but look your
your Jen you're right to say that the
scientists and the medical advisors are
important they'll continue to attend
these press conferences perhaps not on a
daily basis they've got a huge amount of
other work to do and ultimately the
politicians need to answer the judgement
calls that we make based on the evolving
science so that's and that's the
approach we're taking Jane thank you
very much this Piper from Reuters hi
there and hey in April he said it
wouldn't be business as usual with China
after the coronavirus crisis but even
now over Hong Kong and Huawei it seems
like the tide is already turning how
seriously do you take the warnings from
Beijing that China could inflict
substantial damage on the British
economy yes I'm not sure answered your
question we said it wouldn't be business
as usual that's partly about our
approach and our diplomacy and our
international relations with all
countries after coronavirus I think it
will be business as usual abroad it's
certainly not at home and
and look in relation to China and there
is obviously this fresh review on the 5g
situation based on the evolving evidence
that we've got and in relation to Hong
Kong I think we've put out a very clear
position which is that if China follows
through on this national security law we
would it would be in conflict direct
conflict with the undertakings they've
made under the sino UK joint declaration
of 1984 so it doesn't feel to me like
that strictly speaking business as usual
but I think it's also true and right to
say that we want to have a balanced
approach with China there are
opportunities in that relationship not
just on trade but also on cop 26 and in
climate change
real really important opportunities to
shift the dial and work with China and
other leading members of the
international community on tackling
climate change that's particularly
important to us and for the Prime
Minister with a cop 26 share to all for
next year at the same time we're going
to rigorously and robustly defend all of
our values as we will over hong kong but
also key things like infrastructure and
and other elements of our economy if you
want to come back on anything i mean it
does seem like there's some kind of
reset taking place at the moment and
you're trying to balance security
concerns with economic prosperity but i
just i mean as we go forward what would
you say to hsbc that has basically
supported china's new security law in
hong kong and when will we actually see
the result of the aisleway review well
the the review will be ready when it's
we've got the full data back from the
people that conducting it and NSC will
need to look at it again in relation to
hsbc look ultimately businesses will
make their own judgment calls but let me
just put it this way we will not
sacrifice the people of hong kong over
the altar of banker bonuses and we've
made a historic commitment to the people
of hong kong to protect their autonomy
and let their freedoms and more
importantly so is China so we will hold
them to those responsibilities and I'll
let business businesses and banks
make their own judgment call but for us
this is a point of principle and I think
it's right we live up to our historic
responsibilities and we stick up for the
people and stand up for the people of
Hong Kong at this very sensitive time as
as you'll know this isn't a foregone
conclusion China can step back from the
brink and we urge them to do CERN I've
spoken to my Chinese opposite number
state councilor foreign minister Wang Yi
and we had a perfectly reasonable
discussion but we've made it very clear
our position thanks Liz Mark Andrews
from the Shropshire star our local MP
Owen Paterson has said that getting the
2 meter rule down to one meter is he
saying sure to kick-start our tool ISM
and hospitality industries I believe
that when the Prime Minister announced
the view recently he said the decision
will be made which it depends on the
thing is getting down enough but
precisely does this mean what targets
will need to be set and how close are we
to eating them yeah thank you very much
that you're right the Prime Minister's
commission they're a comprehensive
review of the 2 meter rule it will look
at how it works in practice the
scientific evidence will try and learn
as much as we can from the international
experience which differs of course and
as in the meantime I think our message
is as shops reopen it is very important
and with the minority of scenes that
we've seen today it's important to
emphasize that people must continue to
keep two meters apart wherever possible
and follow our state and our stay alert
guidance we expect the review to be
completed within the coming weeks and
we'll be able to say more then what the
issues is can you give to people in the
hospitality industry who are concerned
also with the quality policies in place
and the restrictions on the Welsh border
what what issues can you give to people
in the hospitality industry that will be
able to the out there well look we we've
always said I think that in terms of
bars restaurants and others in the
hospitality set
we would look at taking further measures
if you look back at the roadmap on the
11th of May we said that at the earliest
to 4th of July so the review of the 2
meter rule will inform that but we want
to get those bars restaurants all of
those small businesses up and running as
soon as we can do so but it's got to be
done in a safe and responsible way so we
do need to have review we do need to
look at the latest evidence we need to
make sure we're gauging the progress
that we've made as I said that in the
slides today we've seen progress across
pretty much the entire UK across all
regions across all the nations in
getting a hold of the virus bringing it
down if that continues if we find that
the measures that we've already taken
including today can be done in a careful
way that we don't see the virus spiked
back up again I think we'll be in the
strongest position to give relief and
reassurance to the hospitality sector
but we've got to make sure we proceed in
a careful short footed way we don't want
a second spite that would be bad for
Public Health bad for the economy
including the small businesses that
you've mentioned and I think it would be
bad for public confidence so we're
sticking to the road map but we are
making progress and if we continue to do
so hopefully sooner or later we can
provide some reassurance and some
further guided to that sector thank you
very much and that that brings an enter
today's Downing Street press competency
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch BBC News live in the app and get
the full story with BBC dog code at UK
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with BBC News